Upload (#1)
privacy-ethereum/nova-by-hand: part_3.md

# Nova Folding Part 3: Cycle of Curve in Nova

> This part explains about what is the Cycle of Curve and How it works in Nova Folding. The original Nova paper used a single elliptic curve. However, Recursion, which generally repeats Proving and (partial) Vrifying, can improve the efficiency of proof generation by using a special pair of two elliptic curves called a Cycle of Curves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This part explains about what is the Cycle of Curve and How it works in Nova Folding. The original Nova paper used a single elliptic curve. However, Recursion, which generally repeats Proving and (partial) Verifying, can improve the efficiency of proof generation by using a special pair of two elliptic curves called a Cycle of Curves.
```

## 5.2 Recursion with Cycle of Curve
Next, let's look at why Cycle of Curve can make recursion more efficient. Please remember this relationship.
![cycle of curve](/images/part3_cycleofcurve.png)

In recursion, two elliptic curves are used alternately.

![cycle of curve and circuits](/images/part3_cycleofcurveandcircuits.png)

This illustration was inspired by [The Halo2 Book](https://zcash.github.io/halo2/background/curves.html#cycles-of-curves)

First, suppose we want to prove a circuit defined by a finite field $F_q$. Then we create a proof $\Pi$ whose value is on $G_{1(p)}$, order $p$. Then, in the next recursive step, we define a circuit on a finite field of $F_p$ whose order is $p$ and create the proof $\Pi$ from there. Here, the order $p$ of the proof and the order $p$ of the finite field of the new circuit are the same and compatible. After that, the order of the next proof of the circuit defined on $F_p$ will be $q$ in $G_{2(q)}$, and in the next recursion step, the circuit is compatible with the finite field $F_q$ whose order is $q$. 
Thus, by using the Cycle of Curve, we can make the proof $\Pi$ compatible with the order of the circuit at each recursion step.

> # 6 Why Dose the Cycle of Curve make it efficiency in Nova?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 6 Why does the Cycle of Curve makes Nova efficient?
```
